# CS-340

- How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially considering your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
  
  -  In order to create programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is rather simple. Each one goes hand in hand with each other and the way I write programs focuses on these aspects heavily. First off, you must break down your code and divide up it up doing so allows you to isolate parts of the code and make it easier to understand. Additionally, it allows you to reuse parts of the code allowing each part to be adaptable in the long term. Secondly, breaking down code makes it easier to isolate bugs allowing for easier fixes and maintain on existing code. Finally, understanding complexity comes down to understanding the pieces and how they interact with each other. Things such as spacing, separate functions, and comments all allow for separating pieces of a complex object into something that can be understood while also giving access to complex features that seem hard to implement. A great example is the CRUD module this project is based on. CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update and Delete and the simplest breakdown for this module is a function for each. Working in this way allows for a complex database access to be simplified into four easier to understand functions accessible via the CRUD class. This can also be used in a series of ways for other projects in the future as it has the ability to function for different databases and could be used for other types of file storage outside of the database.

- How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

  - There are many ways to approach varies problems that you encounter. Some of these problems might be hands-on problems, thinking problems, or even a mixture of the two. Different problems need different solutions and talking specifically about problems in computer science can come in either a hands on or thinking problem. A computer scientist could be working on software that doesn't use hardware or could use a hardware component. When it comes to being a computer scientist you must be flexible and understand the problem in it, whole blind guessing rarely will solve the issue. In the case of the database interactions or dashboard for the Grazioso Salvare this required a software problem solving set of skills. When a problem arose during the project the first thing to do was understand what the issue was and, in my case, the major issue was error handling. Since the errors I received were vague to where they occurred, I had to use my knowledge of computer science to understand where errors such as the ones I was getting were likely occurring. As a result, I would have performed error checking in those areas to prevent crashes or errors on the dashboard. This approach was a little different than previous assignment as the error checking in process was different than a typical debugger or console output which forced me to use more of my knowledge to identify specific places for error handling. The best technique I used and will use is to ensure that I have a clean backup of the database to reset the state of the database back to after making any changes. This is since when errors check or validate if a problem occurs the database may be in a state where they no longer produce the error or now will allow produce any error. Secondly, insuring to have a full list of operations performed on a database following a clear restore. This allows me to verify that I have indeed fixed any error that occurred. Thirdly, to meet customer requests I ensure that any code used to affect a database is well tested and validated to meet any requirement given by the customer.

- What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

  - It is an important question to ask what computer scientists to do as it is such a broad term to describe someone. Much like other scientists it is not always clear what they do. A computer scientist often is an expert on software for many kinds of applications, they may or may not excel at one thing or another. A computer scientist should be able to look at programs’ code regardless of knowing the language and understand the general idea of how it should work. Computer scientists excel at this kind of understanding and can often determine many aspects of a piece of software without fully understanding how to implement those features in a different language. This gives us a unique ability to use our previous abilities in other languages, software, or coding IDEs to quickly adapt and apply those skills in a completely different set of languages, software, and IDEs. The reason this work on this project could be helpful to a company is because we are not only good at one thing such as making the CRUD in python, but we could take this to a more advanced level such as direct SQL or using Java instead of Python. Our adaptability is our strong suit. CRUD is an example of this adaptability as it is not just a program written in Python but it a program interacting with another program via CRUD and Python.
