# CS-360

***It is important to note that this version of the project patches a bug with the format of events not displaying the full error message. As a result, some users were confused why the event was not submitted correctly. This bug has been patched in this version of the program. The error message now displays twice once for date and once as a time. Please use date format MM-dd-yyyy (ex. 12-12-2024) and time format hh:mma (ex. 01:00am or 01:00pm).***

- Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs is this app designed to address?

  - The app that was developed for this repository was an Event-Tracking Application. This application had several goals and requirements that need to be completed. First, the application had to have a database with two tables, one which could store specific data for each event and another for saving details about log in information. As a result of storing log-in information the app would also require the user to be able to log in as well as register an account into the database. This was required to be one of the screens for the application that allowed a log in section and register section. The app required a home screen that supported showing any upcoming events within a grid. Next, the user required a method for adding, removing, or editing events and each event must store a date/time as well as general event specific information. Finally, the app required the user to be able to receive notifications based on when the event started for that given day.
  - To meet these requirements a few user needs must be considered, first the log in screen must require both a username and password as well as requirement that both fields be filled out. Additionally, the same must be true when registering an account which can be done using the same log in prompt for simplicity. Second the home screen must support access to a menu for logging out, settings, and returning to home along with a menu that supports two buttons one for upcoming events and one for calander view. This allows the user to navigate the interface without issues as well as give the user access to required features. Finally, the user must be able to delete there account and all data related to the account.

- What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?

  - I have mentioned a few specific cases above however I did not go into a large amount of detail. Starting off four screens were needed to support the users’ needs and produce a user-centered UI. First, the default screen is the login screen where the user can login or register an account. This allows the user to easily log in or create an account without any issues. Instantly after logging in the user is brought to the home screen which gives access to all the application features right away. This home screen was broken into a fragment view, a bottom navigation menu, and a side navigation menu. To promote a user-center UI and to keep the user in mind the secondary features such as settings and log out are hidden by default while the lower setting that switch between upcoming and calendar view is visible. This promotes the idea and focus of creating events and viewing events at the forefront of the users’ focus. Lastly, to keep things clear, a third screen was designed to handle adding events or updating events. This screen, when accessed in various ways automatically fills in logical data such as when editing the data for each field is filled in to match the original event that was created. Another example is when creating an event in calendar view it puts the start and end dates in by default based on the selected date. This keeps again the user in mind by providing logical steps that assist the user along the way. Finally, the settings screen is in the secondary side menu allowing the user to enable SMS notification and the delete account button. As these are not required for functionality they are added as a secondary benefit should the user want these features. Overall, I feel that the design is straight forward and makes logic sense which is important to the successfulness of an event-tracking application. It keeps the main ideal at the forefront with additional features if the user requires them, which is why the design is successful overall.
  
- How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?

  - My approach to the process of coding the app was first to design a documentation or flow chart of how the application would work and how the UI would be laid out. This allows me to know what I am aiming for before just writing random code and removes unneeded stress of design and allows for focus on implementation instead. Second, I focused on core features first, for example I prepared the login screen and login database first before moving on to working on other steps. This is because to access later features you must login so it important that step one works before step two is focused upon. Third, I focused on creating the expected functionality of the events and insuring that you could add, edit and delete events before expanding onto a calander fragment. Fourth, I add the SMS layer which allows events to be put into the notification section when they are starting. Finally, I went through and cleaned up the UI simplifying and tweaking the experience to fully fit the designed vision. Overall, the techniques and strategies were to work piece by piece and focus on design, implementation, testing, and final tweaks rather than trying to work on ever part all at once. These techniques and strategies in the future help support a team mentality as well as the ability to take large projects in chunks at a time. Likewise, these techniques and strategies will help to keep the purpose and design of the app constant, well maintained, and clean.
  
- How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?

  - The testing phase of the app was mostly handled by user testing. User testing allowed me to view how the application functioned from a user experience. This allowed me to ensure everything was as expected for any user of the application. Additionally, I also wrote several checks and debug message that assist in determining what the application was doing at various times. With these and the debugger itself it was easy to ensure that the code itself was functional and helped find errors within the design. This is important because it removes bugs and issues within the design allowing for better user experience especially when the experience is at the forefront of app design. However, what is important to note is to check everything which unfortunately in this project led to user confusion when adding events. It was not validated how much of an error message could be display leading to the user being unaware of the intended format of the time part of the event. Overall, this testing revealed that sometimes, no matter how hard you test, not everything goes as planned and it is important to test the dumb thing as well as the things that break the application.
  
- Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?

  - Considering the full app design and development that design part of the UI was straight forward. I had a clear vision from previous usage of other applications on what the app needs to look like and a general idea of how to implement them. However, as development started it became clear to have the home screen function as need a series of innovations need to take place. First, starting with how to handle fragments needs to be considered. This was due to the upcoming events and calendar view sharing similar aspect to each other. By using fragments, it allowed the middle of the screen to be swapped with a different fragment while keeping the functionality of the menus. Secondly, the calendar needs to have support for showing events, adding events, and selecting dates. This is not a feature that the normal calander view supports. Instead, I had to innovate cleverly through listening to display events of the selected date, allowing adding an event on a selected date, and lastly keeping track of the selected date. These feature would be a make or break for the calander fragment and required innovation to overcome the challenge.
  
- In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?

  - I think the home screen is where I was particularly successful, primary because of it being expandable via fragments. This means feature update can easily be expanded into the UI as well as updating a particular fragment is easy to do. This was a large undertaking as it works differently from standard activities and really pushed my skills to understand how fragments work by requirement to expand upon the basics of a fragment. It took all my Java experience, coding skills, and a variety of my knowledge to pull off and it all came together to create the upcoming event fragment with events being updated live as well as the calendar fragment which can be updated by selecting another date and shows all the events that involve that date. Overall, the combination of fragments made or broke the application, and it took all my knowledge, skills, and experience to not only understand but to make function in the desired way.

